content/10-rhacs-setup/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "Install and Configure ACS"
weight = 15
+++

During the workshop you went through the OpenShift developer experience starting from software development using Quarkus and `odo`, moving on to automating build and deployment using Tekton pipelines and finally using GitOps for production deployments.

Now it's time to add another extremely important piece to the setup; enhancing application security in a containerized world. Using a recent addition to the OpenShift portfolio: **Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes**!

## Install RHACS

### Install the Operator

Install the "Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes" operator from OperatorHub:

- Switch **Update approval** to `Manual`
- Apart from this use the default settings
- Approve the installation when asked

{{% notice info %}}
Red Hat recommends installing the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes Operator in the **rhacs-operator** namespace. This will happen by default..
{{% /notice %}}

### Install the main component **Central**

{{% notice info %}}
You must install the ACS Central instance in its own project and not in the **rhacs-operator** and **openshift-operator** projects, or in any project in which you have installed the ACS Operator!
{{% /notice %}}

- Navigate to **Operators → Installed Operators**
- Select the ACS operator
- You should now be in the **rhacs-operator** project the Operator created, create a new OpenShift **Project** for the **Central** instance:
  - Select **Project: rhacs-operator → Create project**
  - Create a new project called **stackrox** (Red Hat recommends using **stackrox** as the project name.)
- In the Operator view under **Provided APIs** on the tile **Central** click **Create Instance**
- Accept the name **stackrox-central-services**
- Adjust the memory limit of the central instance to `6Gi` (**Central Component Settings->Resources->Limits>Memory**).
- Click **Create**

After deployment has finished (**Status** `Conditions: Deployed, Initialized` in the Operator view on the tab **Central**) it can take some time until the application is completely up and running. One easy way to check the state is to switch to the **Developer** console view at the upper left. Then make sure you are in the **stackrox** project and open the **Topology** map. You'll see the three deployments of an **Central** instance:

- **scanner-db**
- **scanner**
- **centrals**

Wait until all Pods have been scaled up properly.

**Verify the Installation**

Switch to the **Administrator** console view again. Now to check the installation of your **Central** instance, access the **ACS Portal**:

- Look up the **central-htpasswd** secret that was created to get the password

{{% notice info %}}
If you access the details of your **Central** instance in the Operator page you'll find the complete commandline using `oc` to retrieve the password from the secret under `Admin Credentials Info`. Just sayin... ;)
{{% /notice %}}

- Look up and access the route **central** which was also generated automatically.

This will get you to the **ACS Portal**, accept the self-signed certificate and login as user **admin** with the password from the secret.

Now you have a **Central** instance that provides the following services in an
RHACS setup:

- The application management interface and services. It handles data persistence, API interactions, and user interface access. You can use the same **Central** instance to **secure multiple** OpenShift or Kubernetes clusters.

- Scanner, which is a vulnerability scanner for scanning container images. It analyzes all image layers to check known vulnerabilities from the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) list. Scanner also identifies vulnerabilities in packages installed by package managers and in dependencies for multiple programming languages.

To actually do and see anything you need to add a **SecuredCluster** (be it the same or another OpenShift cluster). For effect go to the **ACS Portal**, the Dashboard should by pretty empty, click on the **Compliance** link in the menu to the left, lots of zero's and empty panels, too.

This is because you don't have a monitored and secured OpenShift cluster yet.

### Create an integration to scan the Quay registry

So to enable scanning of images in Quay, you'll have to configure an **Integration** with valid credentials, so this is what you'll do.

Now create a new Integration:
- Access the **RHACS Portal** and configure the already existing integrations of type **Generic Docker Registry**.
- Go to **Platform Configuration -> Integrations -> Generic Docker Registry**.
- Click the **New integration** button
- **Integration name**: Quay local
- **Endpoint**: `https://quay-quay-quay.apps.<DOMAIN>` (replace domain if required)
- **Username**: quayadmin
- **Password**: quayadmin
- Press the **Test** button to validate the connection and press **Save** when the test is successful.

### Prepare to add Secured Clusters

First you have to generate an init bundle which contains certificates and is used to authenticate a **SecuredCluster** to the **Central** instance, again regardless if it's the same cluster as the Central instance or a remote/other cluster.

In the **ACS Portal**:

- Navigate to **Platform Configuration → Integrations**.
- Under the **Authentication Tokens** section, click on **Cluster Init Bundle**.
- Click **Generate bundle**
- Enter a name for the cluster init bundle and click **Generate**.
- Click **Download Kubernetes Secret File** to download the generated bundle.

The init bundle needs to be applied on all OpenShift clusters you want to secure & monitor.

### Prepare the Secured Cluster

For this workshop we run **Central** and **SecuredCluster** on one OpenShift cluster. E.g. we monitor and secure the same cluster the central services live on.

**Apply the init bundle**

- Use the `oc` command to log in to the OpenShift cluster as `cluster-admin`.
  - The easiest way might be to use the **Copy login command** link from the UI
- Switch to the **Project** you installed **ACS Central** in, it should be `stackrox`.
- Run `oc create -f <init_bundle>.yaml -n stackrox` pointing to the init bundle you downloaded from the Central instance and the Project you created.
- This will create a number of secrets:

```
secret/collector-tls created
secret/sensor-tls created
secret/admission-control-tls created
```

### Add the Cluster as **SecuredCluster** to **ACS Central**

You are ready to install the **SecuredClusters** instance, this will deploy the secured cluster services:

- In the **OpenShift Web Console** go to the **ACS Operator** in **Operators->Installed Operators**
- Using the Operator create an instance of the **Secured Cluster** type **in the Project you created** (should be stackrox)
- Change the **Cluster Name** for the cluster if you want, it'll appear under this name in the **ACS Portal**
- And most importantly for **Central Endpoint** enter the address and port number of your **Central** instance, this is the same as the **ACS Portal**.
  - If your **ACS Portal** is available at `https://central-stackrox.apps.<DOMAIN>` the endpoint is `central-stackrox.apps.<DOMAIN>:443`.
- Under **Admission Control Settings** make sure
  - **listenOnCreates**, **listenOnUpdates** and **ListenOnEvents** is enabled
  - Set **Contact Image Scanners** to **ScanIfMissing**
<!-- - Under **Per Node Settings** -> **Collector Settings** change the value for **Collection** form `EBPF` to `KernelModule`. This is a workaround for a known issue. -->
- Click **Create**

Now go to your **ACS Portal** again, after a couple of minutes you should see you secured cluster under **Platform Configuration->Clusters**. Wait until all **Cluster Status** indicators become green.

## Configure Quay Integrations in ACS

For ACS to be able to access images in your local Quay registry, one additional step has to be taken.

Access the ACS Portal and go to **Platform Configuration -> Integrations -> Generic Docker Registry**. You should see a number of autogenerated (from existing pull-secrets) entries.

You have to change the entry pointing to the local Quay registry, it should look like:

`Autogenerated https://quay-quay-quay.apps.<DOMAIN> ....`

Open and edit the integration using the three dots at the right:

- **Username**: quayadmin
- **Password**: the password you entered when creating the quayadmin user
- Make sure **Update stored credentials** is checked
- Press the Test button to validate the connection
- Press Save when the test is successful.

## Architecture recap

{{< figure src="../images/workshop_architecture_stackrox.png?width=50pc&classes=border,shadow" title="Click image to enlarge" >}}

Commit message:

new branch introducing the web terminal

content/10-rhacs-setup/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "Install and Configure ACS"
weight = 15
+++

During the workshop you went through the OpenShift developer experience starting from software development using Quarkus and `odo`, moving on to automating build and deployment using Tekton pipelines and finally using GitOps for production deployments.

Now it's time to add another extremely important piece to the setup; enhancing application security in a containerized world. Using a recent addition to the OpenShift portfolio: **Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes**!

## Install RHACS

### Install the Operator

Install the "Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes" operator from OperatorHub:

- Switch **Update approval** to `Manual`
- Apart from this use the default settings
- Approve the installation when asked

{{% notice info %}}
Red Hat recommends installing the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes Operator in the **rhacs-operator** namespace. This will happen by default..
{{% /notice %}}

### Install the main component **Central**

{{% notice info %}}
You must install the ACS Central instance in its own project and not in the **rhacs-operator** and **openshift-operator** projects, or in any project in which you have installed the ACS Operator!
{{% /notice %}}

- Navigate to **Operators → Installed Operators**
- Select the ACS operator
- You should now be in the **rhacs-operator** project the Operator created, create a new OpenShift **Project** for the **Central** instance:
  - Select **Project: rhacs-operator → Create project**
  - Create a new project called **stackrox** (Red Hat recommends using **stackrox** as the project name.)
- In the Operator view under **Provided APIs** on the tile **Central** click **Create Instance**
- Accept the name **stackrox-central-services**
- Adjust the memory limit of the central instance to `6Gi` (**Central Component Settings->Resources->Limits>Memory**).
- Click **Create**

After deployment has finished (**Status** `Conditions: Deployed, Initialized` in the Operator view on the tab **Central**) it can take some time until the application is completely up and running. One easy way to check the state is to switch to the **Developer** console view at the upper left. Then make sure you are in the **stackrox** project and open the **Topology** map. You'll see the three deployments of an **Central** instance:

- **scanner-db**
- **scanner**
- **centrals**

Wait until all Pods have been scaled up properly.

**Verify the Installation**

Switch to the **Administrator** console view again. Now to check the installation of your **Central** instance, access the **ACS Portal**:

- Look up the **central-htpasswd** secret that was created to get the password

{{% notice info %}}
If you access the details of your **Central** instance in the Operator page you'll find the complete commandline using `oc` to retrieve the password from the secret under `Admin Credentials Info`. Just sayin... ;)
{{% /notice %}}

- Look up and access the route **central** which was also generated automatically.

This will get you to the **ACS Portal**, accept the self-signed certificate and login as user **admin** with the password from the secret.

Now you have a **Central** instance that provides the following services in an
RHACS setup:

- The application management interface and services. It handles data persistence, API interactions, and user interface access. You can use the same **Central** instance to **secure multiple** OpenShift or Kubernetes clusters.

- Scanner, which is a vulnerability scanner for scanning container images. It analyzes all image layers to check known vulnerabilities from the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) list. Scanner also identifies vulnerabilities in packages installed by package managers and in dependencies for multiple programming languages.

To actually do and see anything you need to add a **SecuredCluster** (be it the same or another OpenShift cluster). For effect go to the **ACS Portal**, the Dashboard should by pretty empty, click on the **Compliance** link in the menu to the left, lots of zero's and empty panels, too.

This is because you don't have a monitored and secured OpenShift cluster yet.

### Create an integration to scan the Quay registry

So to enable scanning of images in Quay, you'll have to configure an **Integration** with valid credentials, so this is what you'll do.

Now create a new Integration:
- Access the **RHACS Portal** and configure the already existing integrations of type **Generic Docker Registry**.
- Go to **Platform Configuration -> Integrations -> Generic Docker Registry**.
- Click the **New integration** button
- **Integration name**: Quay local
- **Endpoint**: `https://quay-quay-quay.apps.<DOMAIN>` (replace domain if required)
- **Username**: quayadmin
- **Password**: quayadmin
- Press the **Test** button to validate the connection and press **Save** when the test is successful.

### Prepare to add Secured Clusters

First you have to generate an init bundle which contains certificates and is used to authenticate a **SecuredCluster** to the **Central** instance, again regardless if it's the same cluster as the Central instance or a remote/other cluster.

There are two ways doing this:

- Use the ACS Portal: here you'll download the init bundle using the browser to your laptop
- Use the API e.g. with `curl`: this can be run in any terminal without the need for a browser because the init bundle will be create in the terminal session where you then run `oc`.

But anyway you need to run an `oc` command to apply the init bundle!

{{% notice warning %}}
If you are running `oc` on your laptop, you are set. If you are SSH-ing to another host (like the bastion host) to run `oc`, you have to scp the init bundle file over there. If you are using the **OpenShift Web Terminal** you have to use the API method.
{{% /notice %}}

Creating the init bundle using the **ACS Portal**:

- Navigate to **Platform Configuration → Integrations**.
- Under the **Authentication Tokens** section, click on **Cluster Init Bundle**.
- Click **Generate bundle**
- Enter a name for the cluster init bundle and click **Generate**.
- Click **Download Kubernetes Secret File** to download the generated bundle.

Creating the init bundle using the **API** on the commandline:

``` bash
#Export ACS central instance endpoint
export ROX_ENDPOINT=<central_url:443>
# Export bundle-name
export DATA={\"name\":\"<bundle name>\"}
# Export ACS admin password
export PASSWORD=<password>

curl -k -o bundle.json -X POST -u "admin:$PASSWORD" -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data $DATA https://${ROX_ENDPOINT}/v1/cluster-init/init-bundles

cat bundle.json | jq -r '.kubectlBundle'  | base64 -d
```

The init bundle needs to be applied on all OpenShift clusters you want to secure & monitor.

### Prepare the Secured Cluster

For this workshop we run **Central** and **SecuredCluster** on one OpenShift cluster. E.g. we monitor and secure the same cluster the central services live on.

**Apply the init bundle**

- Use the `oc` command to log in to the OpenShift cluster as `cluster-admin`.
  - The easiest way might be to use the **Copy login command** link from the UI
  - If on the bastion or in a Web Terminal session, `oc` will just work
- Switch to the **Project** you installed **ACS Central** in, it should be `stackrox`.
- Run `oc create -f <init_bundle>.yaml -n stackrox` pointing to the init bundle you downloaded from the Central instance or created via the API as above.
- This will create a number of secrets:

```
secret/collector-tls created
secret/sensor-tls created
secret/admission-control-tls created
```

### Add the Cluster as **SecuredCluster** to **ACS Central**

You are ready to install the **SecuredClusters** instance, this will deploy the secured cluster services:

- In the **OpenShift Web Console** go to the **ACS Operator** in **Operators->Installed Operators**
- Using the Operator create an instance of the **Secured Cluster** type **in the Project you created** (should be stackrox)
- Change the **Cluster Name** for the cluster if you want, it'll appear under this name in the **ACS Portal**
- And most importantly for **Central Endpoint** enter the address and port number of your **Central** instance, this is the same as the **ACS Portal**.
  - If your **ACS Portal** is available at `https://central-stackrox.apps.<DOMAIN>` the endpoint is `central-stackrox.apps.<DOMAIN>:443`.
- Under **Admission Control Settings** make sure
  - **listenOnCreates**, **listenOnUpdates** and **ListenOnEvents** is enabled
  - Set **Contact Image Scanners** to **ScanIfMissing**
<!-- - Under **Per Node Settings** -> **Collector Settings** change the value for **Collection** form `EBPF` to `KernelModule`. This is a workaround for a known issue. -->
- Click **Create**

Now go to your **ACS Portal** again, after a couple of minutes you should see you secured cluster under **Platform Configuration->Clusters**. Wait until all **Cluster Status** indicators become green.

## Configure Quay Integrations in ACS

For ACS to be able to access images in your local Quay registry, one additional step has to be taken.

Access the ACS Portal and go to **Platform Configuration -> Integrations -> Generic Docker Registry**. You should see a number of autogenerated (from existing pull-secrets) entries.

You have to change the entry pointing to the local Quay registry, it should look like:

`Autogenerated https://quay-quay-quay.apps.<DOMAIN> ....`

Open and edit the integration using the three dots at the right:

- **Username**: quayadmin
- **Password**: the password you entered when creating the quayadmin user
- Make sure **Update stored credentials** is checked
- Press the Test button to validate the connection
- Press Save when the test is successful.

## Architecture recap

{{< figure src="../images/workshop_architecture_stackrox.png?width=50pc&classes=border,shadow" title="Click image to enlarge" >}}
